Cross-compiling varlpenis for Commodore products
================================================

This tutorial is designed to work with the
[https://cc65.github.io/](cc65) compiler.
Get a copy working on your system, as well as an emulator such as
[http://vice-emu.sourceforge.net/](VICE) for optional testing purposes.

With no modification, varlpenis should cross-compile for these systems:
* Commodore 64
* Commodore 128

With the `VP_NO_TIME` macro defined, varlpenis should cross-compile
for the following as well:
* Commodore PET
* CBM-II 600-series
* Commodore Plus/4

For some reason or another, the code generated by cc65 is too large
to fit into a VIC-20 executable.

See the [https://cc65.github.io/doc/intro.html#ss6.5](cc65 wiki) for a list
of other Commodore platforms for which you can likely compile with modification.

Preliminary work
----------------

### Changing the ejaculation character

In PETSCII there does not exist a tilde character, `~`.
cc65 automatically replaces this with an inverse T character, `┴`;
however, this may not be suitable for some users.
To change this, simply change the value of the macro `EJAC_CHAR` in `draw.h`.

### Random number generation

varlpenis relies on the `time()` function to seed `rand()`.
As this is unavailable on certain Commodore systems, you will have to
define the macro `VP_NO_TIME` (only on said systems), which will force
use of an alternate seed algorithm.

Compiling
---------

The following macros may be set as needed:

| Macro                 | Definition                                          |
|----------------------:|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `VP_USE_COLOR_CONIO`  | Set to enable color output via cc65 `conio.h`       |
| `VP_NO_ARGV`          | Enables inputting options without a shell           |
| `VP_NO_TIME`          | Use methods other than `time()` to seed `srand()`   |
| `VP_VERSION_STR`      | Define with program version as seen in `configure`  |

Finally, you should be able compile the program.
Below is an example command for Commodore 128:

```console
smp@sakura:~/programs/varlpenis/src $ cl65 -O -t c128 -o varlpenis -D VP_USE_COLOR_CONIO -D VP_NO_ARGV -D VP_VERSION_STR=\"3.1-C128\" main.c draw.c options.c
```

I'll leave loading the executable onto tape/disk to you, the user who
knows much more about their Commodore system than I do.
